The next thing we're gonna discuss is
a family of improvements we can make to
apps in order to optimize it for
mobile devices.
So we should care about this for
two reasons.
First is that the mobile traffic has
already eclipsed desktop traffic and
is ever accelerating in that direction,
right.
More and more people use
their mobile devices to shop,
to get information, to verify
their businesses real, and so on.
And they do it like many
times throughout the day.
The second thing is that
in the middle of last year,
Google decided to fork
their search index right.
The search index was their master data for
the relevance and
importance of search results
on various keywords, right?
So now we have a desktop specific
index and a mobile specific index or
rather a mobile specific index and
stuff for things that are not mobile.
So that means that your
ranking may be different
depending on whether someone searches
with a mobile device or a desktop device.
One of the things that's taken into
consideration beyond what we've talked
about today for mobile devices is
sort of the fitness of your app and
how well it presents itself
on a mobile form factor.
So one of these things
that you have to look for
is, making sure you handle
your viewport correctly.
This is what ensures that your
content gets sized appropriately,
it's done by a meta tag.
Both iOS and
Android will respect this tag and
you see that the name of
the tag is viewport and
the content is a bunch of key
value pairs separated by commas.
Here are the different things
that you can put in that content,
the different key value pairs here.
This is typically a good setting to use
that you start out with the width of
the viewport being the device width.
So the consequence there is you're
gonna sort of end up with a very narrow
window as opposed to a wide
window that is really zoomed out.
So you just have to make sure that your
CSS facilitates a width of, a phone,
which for an iPhone is 320 pixels that you
collapse down effectively to that width.
The initial scale being one, so
that's controls whether you're
zoomed out or zoomed in.
And then you've got a maximum and
minimum scale that lets you sort of bound
the allowed values for the user to scale.
So if you want them to be able to pinch
to zoom in just a little bit, but
not go all the way in and potentially get
lost and there's swimming around in there.
They're tiny viewpornt and
your big area of content like this
would be a way to prevent that.
I leave it to usability experts to advise
us to what the best values are there.
User scalable being set to yes or no,
that is an on off switch as to whether
you can pinch to zoom at all or not.
And so if you're looking for
something that resembles
the experience of a native app.
Like of an app you downloaded
from the App Store,
you're gonna want to turn
the user scaling off so
that people can't zoom in, like on UI
elements, for example, on the navbar.
You may want to facilitate zooming
within certain areas of your site and
you'll handle that sort of in your
application layer the ability to scroll,
to handle this mouse events and
to appropriately respond.
Additional meta tags that you can add to
your app, which will make it seem more app
like start with the apple mobile
web app capable which value is yes.
So like, this tag is either present or
it's not.
So having a value of no there
doesn't make much sense just
don't include the meta tag at all.
This is what lets your
app launch in fullscreen
if it has been launched from
a home screen bookmark.
So you know how you can add
a website to your homescreen
if you have this meta tag in place and
you launch it from the homescreen.
You will be looking at something
that doesn't appear to be a browser.
So the UP address bar will go away, the
bookmarks button will go away but you'll
have some of the very basic controls
like the ability to swipe to go back.
So you'll just be left with that.
When you're in that full screen mode,
you have the option of
turning the status bar black
versus leaving it as its default colour
which is I believe going to be weight.
And then finally, you have
the option to define an alternate,
like you have a second place to
define the home screen title.
If you don't define it by way of this meta
tag, the title tag will be what's used.
But keep in mind, the number of characters
you are allowed in terms of having
the label underneath that homescreen
button, that's a very small number.
I don't recall exactly what the limit is
but it's probably like less than 30 and
you would not want to have such
a short title for general purposes.
As in showing up in search results,
so this is a place where you can,
instead of truncating your title,
which is what's going to happen
if you go over a certain limit.
Here, you can use the short text
that is meaningful for your app.
So going beyond basic mobile meta tags
like this, a new standard is emerging.
So this is in the W3C draft phase and
already supported by modern Android
devices, it is called a web app manifest.
So you create a JSON file,
you refer to it with a meta tag and
then we can place information
in this JSON file that will help
create a really nice
experience on mobile devices.
So just from top to bottom, we've got
the name of our app which is equivalent to
that Apple specific app title
tag except this would be for
Android devices and we hope Apple will
adopt this as the standard as well.
Right, then we've got this icons array and
in terms of what we can put in there,
two things are recommended.
A 192 pixel icon that is used for
the Android home screen button and
this is the appropriate size for
their high DPI devices.
These are their high resolution
if you have one of those
OLED nice Android phones.
It wants a 192 pixel square for
the home screen and
then a larger image that's 512 pixels
which it will use in composing
together with a background color, which is
also in this file a launch screen for you.
So you're gonna hit that button to launch
the app and it will give you kind of
a startup screen with like your icon
centered on a solid color background.
And then gradually,
you're gonna fade into your app.
So, we get a theme color,
which allows you to change the color
of the title bar of your app.
So you can sort of mess with
the styling of the browser itself
outside of your web application.
The background color is part of
what's used for that splash screen.
And also as your app loads,
this is gonna be like the color of
the unpainted area behind your app.
So normally for a client side rendered
app you'd start with a white screen and
then you'd start rendering stuff on it.
This gives you an opportunity to have
something that maybe is consistent
with the colors you're
going to use in your app.
And so it's a little less of a jarring
Slam from white screen into
bright purple experience.
Finally we've got this display value and
there are a couple things we can do here
but you'll start to see some similarities
with the full screen idea in
the Apple meta tag world.
So, here are the values we can use for
this.
And generally what happens
is devices may not support
all of these different
modes of display an app.
And the policy is if a device that
does not support one of these,
it will fall one down into the list and
try to support that.
And if it doesn't support
that it will fall down.
So from bottom to top, we're sorta
stepping up into a more app experience and
from top to bottom,
we can just go through one by one.
Full screen would take all of the display
area, including your battery bar and
your signal, your cell phone,
signal strength and the clock.
Think video player,
that's taking up everything, right?
Standalone is gonna be slightly less than
that and that would be sort of a typical
app like experience where you
leave that always present.
OS UI in place where you can still
see that your Bluetooth is on and
that your phones on vibrate and so on.
Minimal UI that I have yet
to see an example of this is part of
sort of the proposed standard here.
And this you can think of is like
a very light browser experience,
where you might do away with like
the bookmarks, functionality and
the concept of having
many tabs that are open.
But you keep the back button and you keep
the address bar, maybe the refresh button,
but just sort of slimming down
that UI into something more basic.
And then finally at the bottom,
the last resort is the conventional
browser experience.
So if we specify, the typical thing
we wanna do here is standalone for
a full screen app that's equivalent
to that fullscreen Safari tag,
the mobile Safari tag that I gave you.
We've been talking about adding
stuff to the home screen and
launching it from the home screen.
So let's talk a little bit about home
screen icons, I've given you a cheat sheet
of the size of square icons in pixels for
various different types of devices.
Unfortunately, each of these will
require a separate meta tag and
there are quite a lot of them.
So you probably want to use an app or
some sort of there are a couple of
web applications that can take
a high resolution source image.
And to automatically
generate a zip file for
you that contains all of the different
sizes that you care about.
They tend to look like this, it's just
a link tag, the REL is what you have to
look at in order to make it
work on a particular device.
So, when we start the next exercise,
which we are winding up to here.
I've given you all of these already pre
written in your head because it is tedious
as all hell to go and
find all of the correct ones.
So your task will be to uncomment that
big block of rd in place icon stuff and
you're welcome for that because you
would not learn anything from this.
You would just get tired of copying and
pasting.
A library that I love to use
here is called Add Home screen.
Now I'll show you the GitHub URL and
how you're going to invoke this but
it results in
a nice little bubble floating down and
pointing directly to the share button.
The button the user will press to actually
add this thing to the homescreen on their
device.
And they have cleverly and
probably painstakingly found out all of
the different locations of buttons that
lead to bookmarking on various devices.
So you will find that this
thing will float down and
that little arrow will be pointing
right to that little share button.
Basically instructing the user post
this thing, add home screen and
it will read the icon for your app
right out of the same meta tags that
the mobile browser reads in order to
fetch that and put it on the homescreen.
So really, all you need to do is
put an inline JavaScript block,
so this is gonna be just a script tag,
put something like this in place.
And in fact, for today's exercise, you
don't need to pass any options, I simply
wanted to give you an idea of different
things that you could configure here.
It'll have a great default message, the
default app ID is gonna be something that
relates to this cubic company that
open sourced this project, but
you can change it.
Is the name of the key that it uses
the local storage, so it doesn't keep,
like bombarding users with this message
if they say no, I don't want this.
It won't bother them again.
You can actually have it,
you can set it up so
that like only once every two weeks,
show this to people.
So it'll just track frequency rather than
like a yes no, only show it to them once.
Modal and mandatory are useful for
presenting in a different ways,
which is just simply like add
an overlay that will make it.
So that this is the main focus of the page
and like mandatory would even prevent
people from tapping through that overlay
until they've added it to home screen and
launched it.
So there's a way that you can in
JavaScript detect whether you've
been launched from the home screen.
It's like Window.navigator.standalone, so
it is detecting based on that whether it
should keep pestering you to add this or
whether it can finally, leave you alone.
It is a bad practice to just get
in your users way to that extent.
I would say if you really want to
get on your users home screen just
do that in terms of frequency and
say like, every ten days ask them again.